[DOC-12610]: document `nprobe` tweaking (#281)
couchbaselabs/docs-devex: modules/vector-search/pages/fine-tune-vector-search.adoc

> = Fine-tuning Vector Searches

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Fine-Tuning a Vector Search Query
```

> :page-topic-type: concept

Reviewer: I'm not sure that this counts as a conceptual page.

:page-ui-name: {ui-name}
:page-product-name: {product-name}
:stem:

> :description: pass:q[Additional parameters can be added to a vector search REST call that will allow you to tune the search for recall and/or accuracy.]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: Add additional parameters to a Vector Search REST API call to tune the search for recall or accuracy.
```

[abstract]
{description}

[#overview]

> == Overview

Reviewer: If you're not linking to this from elsewhere, this isn't a useful heading. 

```suggestion

```

> Couchbase automatically dynamically tunes vector indexes to achieve a balance between recall (the quality of the search results),
> latency (search response time), and memory efficiency.
> This tuning occurs during indexing and querying, eliminating the need for users to adjust optimization parameters manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Search Service automatically tunes your Vector Search indexes to achieve a balance between: 

* Recall, or the quality of your search results
* Latency, or your search response time
* Memory efficiency

This tuning occurs during indexing and querying. 
You do not need to adjust these parameters manually. 
```

> Couchbase dynamically adjusts two critical vector parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifically, the Search Service dynamically adjusts two critical vector parameters:
```

> `nlist` (or `Centroid` count)::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`nlist`, also known as `Centroid` count::
```

The number of clusters used for indexing.

> The centroids are used to quickly find the surrounding closest matches in the index. Increasing the number of centroids will increase accuracy but will decrease the speed of the search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Centroids are used to quickly find the surrounding closest matches in the Vector Search index. 
Increasing the number of centroids will increase accuracy but will decrease the speed of the search.
```
Remember to use ventilated prose, please.

+

> The `nlist` is determined dynamically based on the size of the dataset (number of vectors) in a partition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `nlist` is determined dynamically based on the size of the dataset, or the number of vectors in a partition:
```

+
[%header, cols="3*a"]
|===
| Number of vectors in partition (`nvec`)
| `nlist` calculation
| Notes

| stem:["nvec " ge " 200,000"]

> | stem:[4 xx sqrt("nvec")]

Reviewer: Can you build a preview site, please? I want to see how this renders in the table.

Author: Yup, can do that.

https://preview.docs-test.couchbase.com/doc-12610/server/current/vector-search/fine-tune-vector-search.html

| This formula is designed to handle larger datasets
 where increasing the number of datasets does not yield significant improvements in recall.

| stem:["1000" lt "nvec" le "200,000" ]
| stem:["nvec" / 100]
| This formula targets approximately 100 vectors per cluster,
which balances between too few and too many clusters, ensuring efficient indexing.

| stem:["nvec" lt 1000]
| N/A

> | For number of vectors less than 1000, Couchbase will carry out a straight forward one-to-one mapping between IDs and vectors with an exact vector comparison.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| For a number of vectors less than 1000, the Search Service will carry out a straight forward one-to-one mapping between IDs and vectors with an exact vector comparison.
```

Vectors are directly stored without the need for additional processing for the `nlist` calculation.

|===

`nprobes` (or `probes`)::

> The number of `centroids` that a query will check for similar vectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of `centroids` that a Search query will check for similar vectors.
```

> The `nprobe` value is only set when Couchbase is using an Inverted File Index. Couchbase will select the best index type and comparison method depending on the size of the dataset and the `vector_index_optimized_for` setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `nprobe` value is only set when the Search Service is using an Inverted File Index. The Search Service will select the best index type and comparison method depending on the size of the dataset and your `vector_index_optimized_for` setting.
```
Please add a link to where we explain the `vector_index_optimized_for` setting. I know it's discussed in creation topics.

+
+
[%header, cols="3*a"]
|===
| Query optimization
| `nprobe` calculation
| Notes

| Default calculation
| stem:[sqrt("nlist")]
| This provides a balanced tradeoff between recall and latency by adjusting the number of clusters probed during queries.

| Latency-optimized (`vector_index_optimized_for: latency`)
| stem:[sqrt("nlist") / 2]
| A minimum value of 1 is enforced to avoid setting `nprobe` too low.

|===

== Fine-Tuning Query Parameters

> The Vector Search API will accept an additional parameter object, allowing for tuning the recall and/or accuracy of the search execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add an additional parameter object to any Vector Search query to tune the recall or accuracy of your search.
```

> `ivf_nprobe_pct`::
> Adjusts the number percentage of clusters searched during queries, allowing for fine-tuning of the balance between recall and performance.
> If the value of `nprobe` is 5% of `nlist` (the centroid count), then setting the value of `ivf_nprobe_pct` higher than 5% will have the search cover a higher percentage of clusters, which will improve the accuracy of the search.
> 
> `ivf_max_codes_pct`::
> The default value for this is 100, and the value represents the percentage of `centroids` that will be visited during a search. Reducing the value reduces the number of centroids visited, which will descrease accurary and recal, but will result in faster compute times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add the following parameters to your query: 

`ivf_nprobe_pct`::
Adjusts the number percentage of clusters searched during queries, allowing for fine-tuning of the balance between recall and performance.
If the value of `nprobe` is 5% of `nlist` (the centroid count), then setting the value of `ivf_nprobe_pct` higher than 5% will have the search cover a higher percentage of clusters, which will improve the accuracy of the search.

`ivf_max_codes_pct`::
The default value for this is 100, and the value represents the percentage of `centroids` that will be visited during a search. 
Reducing the value reduces the number of centroids visited, which will decrease accuracy and recall, but will result in faster compute times.
```

These need to be added to the full Search documentation, with the explanation of all of the Search request parameters: https://docs.couchbase.com/cloud/search/search-request-params.html

If you don't feel up to doing that yourself, please log a ticket and I will pick it up.

> For example, given a cluster `vector_index_optimized_for`: "recall" and `indexPartitions`: 5,  `nlist` and `nprobe` are determined based on the current vector count in a given partition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Example: nlist and nprobe Calculations on a Vector Search Index Set to Recall 

For example, if you had a Vector Search index with `vector_index_optimized_for` set to `"recall"` and `indexPartitions` set to `5`,  `nlist` and `nprobe` are determined based on the current vector count in a given partition:
```

'''
[options="noheader", frame="none", grid="none" cols="1,1"]
|===
| stem:["Total vectors in index"] (optimization = recall)
| 10,000,000

| stem:["Average vectors in a partition for 5 partitions total"]
| 2,000,000

| stem:["nlist"] (or stem:["centroids"]) = stem:[4 times sqrt("total vectors in index")]
| 5657

| stem:["nprobes"] = stem:[sqrt(nlist)]
| 75

| stem:["Calculated default: ivf_nprobe_pct"]
| 1.325%

| stem:["Calculated default: ivf_max_codes_pct"]
| 100%

|===

'''

[source, json]
.Using tuning parameters
----
{
  "fields": ["*"],
  "knn": [{
    "k": 10,
    "params": {
      "ivf_nprobe_pct": 1,
      "ivf_max_codes_pct": 0.2
    },
    "field": "embedding",
    "vector": [0.024901132253900747, 1535]
  }]
}

> ----

Reviewer: How does this sample code relate to what's in the table above? The values provided are completely different from what you show in the calculation. What is this doing?

[%header, cols="3*a"]
|===
| Number of vectors in partition (`nvec`)
| `Centroid count` (`nlist` calculation)
| Notes

| stem:["nvec " ge " 200,000"]
| stem:[4 xx sqrt("nvec")]
| This formula is designed to handle larger datasets
 where increasing the number of datasets does not yield significant improvements in recall.

| stem:["1000" le "nvec" le "200,000" ]
| stem:["nvec" / 100]
| This formula targets approximately 100 vectors per cluster,
which balances between too few and too many clusters, ensuring efficient indexing.

| stem:["nvec" lt 1000]
| N/A
| For a number of vectors less than 1000, the Search Service will carry out a straight forward one-to-one mapping between IDs and vectors with an exact vector comparison.
Vectors are directly stored without the need for additional processing for the `nlist` calculation.

|===

`nprobes` (or `probes`)::
This is the number of `centroids` that a Search query will check for similar vectors.
The `nprobe` value is only set when the Search Service is using an Inverted File Index. The Search Service will select the best index type and comparison method depending on the size of the dataset and your `vector_index_optimized_for` setting. 
+

> (For more information on the `vector_index_optimized_for` setting, see  xref:search:search-index-params.adoc#vector-index-optimized-param[Search Index JSON properties ])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on the `vector_index_optimized_for` setting, see  xref:search:search-index-params.adoc#vector-index-optimized-param[Search Index JSON properties].
```

+
+
[%header, cols="3*a"]
|===
| Query optimization
| `nprobe` calculation
| Notes

| Default calculation
| stem:[sqrt("nlist")]
| This provides a balanced tradeoff between recall and latency by adjusting the number of clusters probed during queries.

| Latency-optimized calculation (`vector_index_optimized_for: latency`)
| stem:[sqrt("nlist") / 2]
| A minimum value of 1 is enforced to avoid setting `nprobe` too low.

|===

==  Default `nlist` and `nprobe` calculations on a Vector Search Index

> The cluster maintains two dynamically adjusted parameters that will affect the speed, accuracy, and resources used during the search: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cluster maintains two dynamically adjusted parameters that will affect the speed, accuracy, and resources used during a search: 
```

.Default calculation
====
If you have a Vector Search index with `vector_index_optimized_for` set to `"recall"` and `indexPartitions` set to `5`, then the `centroid count` (`nlist`) and `nprobe` are determined based on the current vector count in a given partition.
[options="noheader", frame="none", grid="none" cols="1,1"]

|===
| Total vectors in index (optimization = recall)
| 10,000,000

| Average vectors in a partition for 5 partitions total
| 2,000,000

| centroid count (`nlist`) = stem:[4 times sqrt("total vectors in index")]
| 5657

| nprobes = stem:[sqrt(nlist)]
| 75

| Calculated default: `ivf_nprobe_pct`
| 1.325%

| Calculated default: `ivf_max_codes_pct`
| 100% (default value)

|===

====

== Fine-Tuning Query Parameters

You can add set the values of `ivf_nprobe_pct` and `ivf_max_codes_pct` in your Vector Search queries to tune the recall or accuracy of your search.

You can add the following parameters to your query: 

[source, json]
.Using tuning parameters
----
{
  "fields": ["*"],
  "knn": [{
    "k": 10,
    "params": {
      "ivf_nprobe_pct": 1,
      "ivf_max_codes_pct": 0.2
    },
    "field": "embedding",

>     "vector": [0.024901132253900747, 1535]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "vector": [0.024901132253900747, . . .]
```

  }]
}
----

> In the example above, the search will be carried out across all the fields, looking for close matches for the numbers specified in `vector`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding example, the Search request returns results from any available fields in the index, but specifically searches the `embedding` field for the `10` closest matches to the vector `[0.024901132253900747, . . .]`.
The vector in the Search request has been truncated to reduce the display size of the example.
```
